Measuring and Reducing CPU Usage in SQLite
Small. Fast. Reliable.Choose any three.
Home
Menu
About
Documentation
Download
License
Support
Purchase
Search
About
Documentation
Download
Support
Purchase
Search Documentation
Search Changelog
function toggle_div(nm) {
var w = document.getElementById(nm);
if( w.style.display=="block" ){
w.style.display = "none";
}else{
w.style.display = "block";
}
}
function toggle_search() {
var w = document.getElementById("searchmenu");
if( w.style.display=="block" ){
w.style.display = "none";
} else {
w.style.display = "block";
setTimeout(function(){
document.getElementById("searchbox").focus()
}, 30);
}
}
function div_off(nm){document.getElementById(nm).style.display="none";}
window.onbeforeunload = function(e){div_off("submenu");}
/* Disable the Search feature if we are not operating from CGI, since */
/* Search is accomplished using CGI and will not work without it. */
if( !location.origin || !location.origin.match || !location.origin.match(/http/) ){
document.getElementById("search_menubutton").style.display = "none";
}
/* Used by the Hide/Show button beside syntax diagrams, to toggle the */
function hideorshow(btn,obj){
var x = document.getElementById(obj);
var b = document.getElementById(btn);
if( x.style.display!='none' ){
x.style.display = 'none';
b.innerHTML='show';
}else{
x.style.display = '';
b.innerHTML='hide';
}
return false;
}
var antiRobot = 0;
function antiRobotGo(){
if( antiRobot!=3 ) return;
antiRobot = 7;
var j = document.getElementById("mtimelink");
if(j && j.hasAttribute("data-href")) j.href=j.getAttribute("data-href");
}
function antiRobotDefense(){
document.body.onmousedown=function(){
antiRobot |= 2;
antiRobotGo();
document.body.onmousedown=null;
}
document.body.onmousemove=function(){
antiRobot |= 2;
antiRobotGo();
document.body.onmousemove=null;
}
setTimeout(function(){
antiRobot |= 1;
antiRobotGo();
}, 100)
antiRobotGo();
}
antiRobotDefense();
Measuring and Reducing CPU Usage in SQLite
Table Of Contents
1. Overview
2. Measuring Performance
2.1. Compile Options
2.2. Workload
2.2.1. Update As Of 2026-01-06
2.3. Performance Measurement
2.4. Microoptimizations
3. Performance Measurement Workflow
4. Limitations
5. Why Does The Graph End In 2025?
1. Overview
The graph below shows the number of CPU cycles used by SQLite on a
standard workload, for versions of SQLite between 3.6.1 (2008-08-06)
and 3.48.0 (2025-01-14), a span of about 16.4 years.
Over this interval, the number of CPU cycles used dropped from about
3.376 million down to 0.965 million.  So by 2025, SQLite required only
about 29% as many CPU cycles as it did in 2008.
This article describes how the SQLite developers measure CPU usage,
what those measurements actually mean, and the techniques used by
SQLite developers on their continuing quest to further reduce the
CPU usage of the SQLite library.
Measured using cachegrind on Ubuntu 16.04 on x64 with gcc 5.4.0 and -Os.
2. Measuring Performance
In brief, the CPU performance of SQLite is measured as follows:
 Compile SQLite in an as-delivered configuration, without any special
     telemetry or debugging options.
 Link SQLite against a test program that runs approximately 30,000
     SQL statements representing a typical workload.
 Count the number of CPU cycles consumed using
     cachegrind.
2.1. Compile Options
For performance measurement, SQLite is compiled in approximately the same
way as it would be for use in production systems.  The compile-time configuration
is "approximate" in the sense that every production use of SQLite is 
different. Compile-time options used by one system are not necessarily
the same as those used by others.  The key point is that options that 
significantly impact the generated machine code are avoided.  For example,
the -DSQLITE_DEBUG option is omitted because that option inserts thousands
of assert() statements in the middle of performance critical sections of the
SQLite library.  The -pg option (on GCC) is omitted because it causes the
compiler to emit extra probabilistic performance measuring code which interferes
with actual performance measurements.
For performance measurements,
the -Os option is used (optimize for size) rather than -O2 because the
-O2 option creates so much code movement that it is difficult to associate
specific CPU instructions to C source code lines.
2.2. Workload
The "typical" workload is generated by the
speedtest1.c
program in the canonical SQLite source tree.  This program strives to
exercise the SQLite library in a way that is typical of real-world
applications.  Of course, every application is different, and so
no test program can exactly mirror the behavior of all applications.
The speedtest1.c program is updated from time to time as the SQLite
developers' understanding of what constitutes "typical" usage evolves.
The 
speed-check.sh shell
script, also in the canonical source tree, is used to run the speedtest1.c
program.  To replicate the performance measurements, collect the following
files into a single directory:
 the "speed-check.sh" script,
 the "speedtest1.c" test program, and
 the SQLite amalgamation source files "sqlite3.c" and
     "sqlite3.h"
Then run "sh speed-check.sh trunk".
2.2.1. Update As Of 2026-01-06
This article was originally written on 2016-12-08.
The speed-check.sh script is no longer used.  A new script named
speedtest.tcl has
been devised and has been used since early 2025.  See the
speedtest.md
documentation file for details.  This article continues to
reference the older performance measurement script, as part of
the historical record.
2.3. Performance Measurement
Cachegrind is used to
measure performance because it gives answers that are repeatable to 
7 or more significant digits.  In comparison, actual (wall-clock)
run times are scarcely repeatable beyond one significant digit.
2.4. Microoptimizations
The high repeatability of cachegrind allows the SQLite developers to
implement and measure "microoptimizations".  A microoptimization is
a change to the code that results in a very small performance increase.
Typical micro-optimizations reduce the number of CPU cycles by 0.1% or
0.05% or even less.  Such improvements are impossible to measure with
real-world timings.  But hundreds or thousands of microoptimizations
add up, resulting in measurable real-world performance gains.
3. Performance Measurement Workflow
As SQLite developers edit the SQLite source code, they run the
speed-check.sh
shell script to track the performance impact of changes.  This
script compiles the speedtest1.c program, runs it under cachegrind,
processes the cachegrind output using the
cg_anno.tcl TCL
script, then saves the results in a series of text files.
Typical output from the speed-check.sh script looks like this:
==8683== 
==8683== I   refs:      1,060,925,768
==8683== I1  misses:       23,731,246
==8683== LLi misses:            5,176
==8683== I1  miss rate:          2.24%
==8683== LLi miss rate:          0.00%
==8683== 
==8683== D   refs:        557,686,925  (361,828,925 rd   + 195,858,000 wr)
==8683== D1  misses:        5,067,063  (  3,544,278 rd   +   1,522,785 wr)
==8683== LLd misses:           57,958  (     16,067 rd   +      41,891 wr)
==8683== D1  miss rate:           0.9% (        1.0%     +         0.8%  )
==8683== LLd miss rate:           0.0% (        0.0%     +         0.0%  )
==8683== 
==8683== LL refs:          28,798,309  ( 27,275,524 rd   +   1,522,785 wr)
==8683== LL misses:            63,134  (     21,243 rd   +      41,891 wr)
==8683== LL miss rate:            0.0% (        0.0%     +         0.0%  )
   text	   data	    bss	    dec	    hex	filename
 523044	   8240	   1976	 533260	  8230c	sqlite3.o
 220507 1007870 7769352 sqlite3.c
The important parts of the output (the parts that the developers pay
the most attention to) are shown in red.
Basically, the developers want to know the size of the compiled SQLite
library and how many CPU cycles were needed to run the performance test.
The output from the 
cg_anno.tcl script
shows the number of CPU cycles spent on each line of code.
The report is approximately 80,000 lines long.  The following is a brief
snippet taken from the middle of the report to show what it looks like:
         .  SQLITE_PRIVATE int sqlite3BtreeNext(BtCursor *pCur, int *pRes){
         .    MemPage *pPage;
         .    assert( cursorOwnsBtShared(pCur) );
         .    assert( pRes!=0 );
         .    assert( *pRes==0 || *pRes==1 );
         .    assert( pCur->skipNext==0 || pCur->eState!=CURSOR_VALID );
   369,648    pCur->info.nSize = 0;
   369,648    pCur->curFlags &= ~(BTCF_ValidNKey|BTCF_ValidOvfl);
   369,648    *pRes = 0;
   739,296    if( pCur->eState!=CURSOR_VALID ) return btreeNext(pCur, pRes);
 1,473,580    pPage = pCur->apPage&#91;pCur->iPage&#93;;
 1,841,975    if( (++pCur->aiIdx&#91;pCur->iPage&#93;)>=pPage->nCell ){
     4,340      pCur->aiIdx&#91;pCur->iPage&#93;--;
     5,593      return btreeNext(pCur, pRes);
         .    }
   728,110    if( pPage->leaf ){
         .      return SQLITE_OK;
         .    }else{
     3,117      return moveToLeftmost(pCur);
         .    }
   721,876  }
The numbers on the left are the CPU cycle counts for that line of code,
of course.
The cg_anno.tcl script removes extraneous details from the default 
cachegrind annotation
output so that before-and-after reports can be compared using a 
side-by-side diff to view specific details of how a
micro-optimization attempt affected performance.
4. Limitations
The use of the standardized speedtest1.c workload and cachegrind has
enabled significant performance improvement.
However, it is important to recognize the limitations of this approach:
Performance measurements are done with a single compiler (gcc 5.4.0),
optimization setting (-Os), and
on a single platform (Ubuntu 16.04 LTS on x64).  The performance of
other compilers and processors may vary.
The speedtest1.c workload that is being measured tries to be representative
of a wide range of typical uses of SQLite.  But every application is
different.  The speedtest1.c workload might not be a good proxy for the
kinds of activities performed by some applications.  The SQLite developers
are constantly working to improve the speedtest1.c program, to make it
a better proxy for actual SQLite usage.  Community feedback is welcomed.
The cycle counts provided by cachegrind are a good proxy for actual
performance, but they are not 100% accurate.
Only CPU cycle counts are being measured here. 
CPU cycle counts are a good proxy for energy consumption,
but do not necessary correlate well with real-world timings.
Time spent doing I/O is not reflected in the CPU cycle counts,
and I/O time predominates in many SQLite usage scenarios.
5. Why Does The Graph End In 2025?
The CPU cycle counts depend a lot on the particular compiler
used, and also to some extent on the operating system.  All of
the measurements in the graph above were made using GCC 5.4.0
on Ubuntu 16.04.  That machine was powered down in early 2025,
and so it is no longer available to do additional measurements.
We could redo all 61 measurements shown in the graph using
a more recent compiler.  (This update is being entered in early
2026 using Linux Mint 2.22 that hosts GCC 13.3.0.)  But that
would be a lot of work for no noticable gain.  Most of the
performance gains occurred in years 2013 through 2017, when
the microoptimization techniques described above were
first being applied to SQLite.  You can clearly see in the
graph that the performance curve leveled out in about 2018.
Since then, there has been a slow increase in performance, but
nothing as dramatic as in prior years.  We expect this trend
to continue.
The developers continue measure performance regularly,
certainly at every release, but also after every significant
change.  We continue to work toward optimizing SQLite to use
as few CPU cycles as possible.  However, no dramatic
performance increases are expected.  Note that SQLite
is already 35% Faster Than The Filesystem.  How much faster
can it get?
This page was last updated on 2026-01-06 14:40:07Z 
