Vulnerabilities
Small. Fast. Reliable.Choose any three.
Home
Menu
About
Documentation
Download
License
Support
Purchase
Search
About
Documentation
Download
Support
Purchase
Search Documentation
Search Changelog
function toggle_div(nm) {
var w = document.getElementById(nm);
if( w.style.display=="block" ){
w.style.display = "none";
}else{
w.style.display = "block";
}
}
function toggle_search() {
var w = document.getElementById("searchmenu");
if( w.style.display=="block" ){
w.style.display = "none";
} else {
w.style.display = "block";
setTimeout(function(){
document.getElementById("searchbox").focus()
}, 30);
}
}
function div_off(nm){document.getElementById(nm).style.display="none";}
window.onbeforeunload = function(e){div_off("submenu");}
/* Disable the Search feature if we are not operating from CGI, since */
/* Search is accomplished using CGI and will not work without it. */
if( !location.origin || !location.origin.match || !location.origin.match(/http/) ){
document.getElementById("search_menubutton").style.display = "none";
}
/* Used by the Hide/Show button beside syntax diagrams, to toggle the */
function hideorshow(btn,obj){
var x = document.getElementById(obj);
var b = document.getElementById(btn);
if( x.style.display!='none' ){
x.style.display = 'none';
b.innerHTML='show';
}else{
x.style.display = '';
b.innerHTML='hide';
}
return false;
}
var antiRobot = 0;
function antiRobotGo(){
if( antiRobot!=3 ) return;
antiRobot = 7;
var j = document.getElementById("mtimelink");
if(j && j.hasAttribute("data-href")) j.href=j.getAttribute("data-href");
}
function antiRobotDefense(){
document.body.onmousedown=function(){
antiRobot |= 2;
antiRobotGo();
document.body.onmousedown=null;
}
document.body.onmousemove=function(){
antiRobot |= 2;
antiRobotGo();
document.body.onmousemove=null;
}
setTimeout(function(){
antiRobot |= 1;
antiRobotGo();
}, 100)
antiRobotGo();
}
antiRobotDefense();
Vulnerabilities
Table Of Contents
1. Executive Summary
2. About CVEs
2.1. A separate SQL injection vulnerability is usually required
2.2. Defense Against Dark Arts
2.3. The SQLite Developer Policy Toward CVEs
3. Status Of Recent SQLite CVEs
1. Executive Summary
CVEs about SQLite probably do not apply to your use of SQLite.
All historical vulnerabilities reported against SQLite require at least
one of these preconditions:
The attacker can submit and run arbitrary SQL statements.
The attacker can submit a maliciously crafted database file to the
application that the application will then open and query.
Few real-world applications meet either of these preconditions, and hence
few real-world applications are vulnerable, even if they use older
and unpatched versions of SQLite.
The SQLite development team fixes bugs promptly,
usually within hours of discovery.  New releases of SQLite
are issued if the bug seems likely to impact real-world
applications.
Grey-hat hackers are rewarded based on the number and severity of 
CVEs that they write.  This results in a proliferation of CVEs that
have minor impact, or no impact at all, but which make
exaggerated impact claims.
Very few CVEs written about SQLite are real vulnerabilities in the 
sense that they do not give any new capabilities to an attacker.
Consider:
    Almost all CVEs written against SQLite require the ability to
    inject and run arbitrary SQL.
    The advertised consequence of most CVEs is "denial of service",
    typically by causing a crash through a NULL pointer dereference or
    a division by zero, or similar.
    But if an attacker can already run
    arbitrary SQL, they do not need a bug to cause a denial of service.
    There are plenty of perfectly legal and valid SQL statements
    that will consume unlimited CPU, memory, and disk I/O in order
    to create a denial-of-service without requiring help from bugs.
    Hence, the mere fact that an attacker has a way to inject and run
    arbitrary SQL is in and of itself a denial-of-service attack.  That
    the arbitrary SQL might also tickle a bug in SQLite and cause a
    crash is not a new vulnerability.
The SQLite developers do not write CVEs.  Any CVEs you find on
SQLite are generated by third-parties, often without any input from the
core developers.  A common scenario is that someone will report a bug in
SQLite, which will promptly be fixed, then weeks later a CVE for that bug will
appear, unbeknownst to the developers.
You should not assume that a CVE about
SQLite contains authoritative information.
CVEs often contain inaccuracies.
The SQLite developers have attempted to add clarifications and
corrections to CVEs about SQLite.  
2. About CVEs
CVEs ("Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures") are reports of software
bugs that might allow a system to be hacked.  The idea
behind CVEs is sound.  They provide a common naming scheme whereby 
software bugs that might compromise information security can be easily
tracked.
While the original idea behind CVEs is sound, the current processes for
creating and managing CVEs are inadequate.  There are countless grey-hat
hackers running fuzzers against a wide-variety of open-source software
products (SQLite as well as many others) and writing up CVEs against
any problems they find.  The grey-hats are rewarded, sometimes with
prestige and sometimes financially, by the number and severity of
the CVEs they write.  This incentive results in a proliferation
of CVEs which are often not well-vetted and which can have exaggerated
impact claims.  The quality-control procedures for CVEs are unable
to cope with this flood of inputs, making it difficult to correct
exaggerated, misleading, omitted, or inaccurate claims.
This is not to say that CVEs are useless.  CVEs do still (mostly)
report actual bugs.  But in most cases the bugs are not true vulnerabilities,
in the sense that they do not contribute to data loss or compromise
in and of themselves.
It is good that bugs are reported and fixed.  But not every bug is
accessible from every application.  In the case of SQLite, most of the
bugs reported by CVEs are inaccessible in most applications.  Upgrading
to the latest version of SQLite is always a good plan, but it need not
be an emergency just because an anonymous grey-hat on the internet
wrote up a CVE.
2.1. A separate SQL injection vulnerability is usually required
Other C-libraries that process complex structured inputs will
routinely be asked to deal with unvetted inputs from untrusted
sources.  Libraries like libjpeg, or libzip, or OpenSSL are
handed input streams that come directly from potentially hostile
agents.
But database engines like SQLite are usually not this way.
The SQL scripts that are passed into SQLite come from the
(trusted) application itself, not from an attacker.  Sometimes
applications contain bugs by which an external attacker can
trick the application into sending SQL of the attackers design
into the database engine.  This is a separate bug in the
application called an
SQL Injection
vulnerability.  Since SQL text is executable code, an
SQL Injection vulnerability is actually a special case of a
Remote
Code Execution (RCE) vulnerability.  An SQL Injection is perhaps not
quite as bad as other kinds of RCEs because,
while SQL is a powerful language, it is not as convenient
for crafting an exploit as Python or shell script or raw machine code.
Nevertheless, an SQL Injection is a serious problem.
Most CVEs written about SQLite assume that the attacker is
able to run arbitrary SQL scripts in SQLite.  In most applications,
this means that there must first be an SQL Injection vulnerability
that allows the attacker to inject the malicious SQL.
A few applications do allow untrusted SQL scripts received from
potentially hostile agents to be run direct in SQLite.  The main
example of this is the Chrome and Safari web browsers, which allow
an anonymous web page to run SQL using the WebSQL feature of Javascript.
This is done inside a sandbox with tightly controlled constraints on
resources, lest the SQL script try to soak up all available memory
or CPU cycles in a denial-of-service attack.  Chrome and Safari
have the infrastructure in place to allow a hostile agent to run
code which does not harm or compromise the rest of the machine.
They have to, as they also run Javascript which could, if not
tightly controlled, do even more damage than unrestrained SQL.
Apart from Chrome and Safari, no applications known to the
SQLite developers deliberately allows an anonymous remote agent
to run arbitrary SQL text.
However, most CVEs written against SQLite flippantly assume
that an attacker is free to run any arbitrary SQL in the database
engine.  So to a good approximation, this means most CVEs
written against SQLite really only apply to SQLite as it is
used in Chrome and Safari.  Or, in other words, most CVEs
for SQLite do not apply to you unless you are one of the
developers of Chrome or Safari.
2.2. Defense Against Dark Arts
Most applications can use SQLite without having to worry about
bugs in obscure SQL inputs.  If the application controls
the SQL, and the application is not deliberately trying to break
SQLite, then everything should just work.
It is not necessary to have the latest patched version of SQLite.
Any older version should work just fine.
However, there are some occasions where an application does need
to be able to safely run untrusted SQL. The SQLite developers work hard
to make SQLite safe for this purpose, though there are occasional
slip-ups.  It is good to keep up-to-date with the latest patches
in this case.  The separate defense against dark arts document
contains additional suggestions that can help prevent zero-day
attacks in cases where SQLite is given inputs that come directly
from untrusted sources. 
2.3. The SQLite Developer Policy Toward CVEs
SQLite developers fix all bugs in SQLite as soon as they are reported,
usually within a few hours.  The fixes are immediately available on the
public SQLite source tree.
If a bug seems like it might cause problems for existing applications,
a new patch release for SQLite will be issued.
However, the SQLite developers do not track CVEs.  There are 
various reasons for this:
The developers often do not find out about CVEs until long after the
bug is fixed.  You can see this by the fact that many CVEs reference the
bug fix in their initial report.
CVEs are a low-quality source of information about bugs in SQLite
that are likely to affect most applications.
Almost all bugs reported by CVEs are just bugs and not
true vulnerabilities.  Claiming that they are vulnerabilities is
stretching the meaning of the word "vulnerability" and the SQLite
developers do not wish to participate in that deception.
The developers have no editorial influence on the content of CVEs,
and they do not like to be controlled by groups in which they have
no voice.
3. Status Of Recent SQLite CVEs
Though the SQLite developers do not consider CVEs to be a reliable
source of information about bugs in SQLite, they recognize that many
groups, and especially small teams working at the bottom of tall
bureaucracies, sometimes need to track CVEs, whether they are useful
or not.  To aid in this chore, the following table of recent CVEs
affecting SQLite is provided.
If you notice new CVEs associated with SQLite that are not in
the table below, please bring them to the attention of the developers
on the SQLite Forum so they can
be added.
CVE Number
Fix
Comments
CVE-2025-3277
3.49.1(2025-02-18)
A bug in the concat_ws() SQL function can cause a write past the end of an array
  obtained from malloc().  If an attacker can control the first argument to concat_ws(),
  so that the separator string is large - more than 2MB - then an integer overflow
  in the calculation of the size of the result buffer might cause a short malloc() and
  subsequent write past the end of the allocated space.  Fixed by
  check-in 2025-02-16T10:57z.
CVE-2025-6965
3.50.2(2025-06-28)
An attacker who can inject arbitrary SQL statements into an application
  might be able to cause an integer overflow resulting in a read off the end
  of an array.
  Fixed on 2025-06-27.
CVE-2025-7458
3.42.0(2023-05-16)
An attacker who can inject arbitrary SQL statements into an application
  might be able to cause an integer overflow resulting in a read off the end
  of an array.
  Fixed on 2023-03-16.
CVE-2025-29087
3.49.1(2025-02-18)
Duplicate of CVE-2025-3277
CVE-2025-29088
3.49.1(2025-02-18)
Passing out-of-bounds arguments to the C-language API routine
  sqlite3_db_config(db,SQLITE_DBCONFIG_LOOKASIDE,...) can lead
  to a crash and denial of service.  Reported by
  Forum post 48f365daec.
  Complaint addressed by
  check-in 2025-02-17T14:16Z.
CVE-2025-52099
3.49.1(2025-02-18)
Duplicate of CVE-2025-29088
CVE-2024-0232
3.43.2(2023-10-10)
An attacker who can inject arbitrary SQL statements into an application
  might be able to provoke a use-after-free bug in SQLite's JSON parser that
  can (in theory) lead to an application crash and denial of service. See
  forum thread b25edc1d4662
  for the bug report.
CVE-2023-32697
Not a bug in SQLite
This is a bug in the SQLite JDBC library, which is a wrapper library that
  provides access to SQLite from Java.  SQLite JDBC is created and maintained
  independently from SQLite.  Despite the use of "SQLite" in the name, the
  SQLite JDBC library is not affiliated with the SQLite project in any way.
  The vulnerability identified by this CVE is in the separate SQLite JDBC
  wrapper library and does not affect SQLite itself.
CVE-2023-39939
Not a bug in SQLite
This is not a bug in SQLite.  This is an 
  SQL injection bug in an application
  (LuxCal Web Calendar) that links against SQLite.
  Even though this CVE is not about SQLite, "SQLite" is
  mentioned in the description and so we list it here.
CVE-2023-39543
Not a bug in SQLite
This is not a bug in SQLite.  This is an
  XSS vulnerability
  in a separate application (LuxCal Web Calendar) that links against
  SQLite.  The bug is in the application, not in SQLite.  However "SQLite" is
  mentioned in the description and so we list it here.
CVE-2023-7104
3.43.1(2023-09-11)
This is a bug in the session extension of SQLite, not in the SQLite core.
  This bug is only reachable by applications that recompile SQLite using the
  -DSQLITE_ENABLE_SESSION compile-time option and then use the Session
  C-language APIs to process a changeset that has been subtly corrupted by an
  adversary.  So this bug probably does not apply to you.  See
  forum post f935c4708dd528d9
  for additional information.
CVE-2022-46908
Not a bug in the core SQLite library
This is a bug in the --safe command-line option of the command-line shell
  program that is available for accessing SQLite database files.  The bug does
  not exist in the SQLite library.  Nor is it an issue for the CLI as long as
  the user does not depend on the --safe option.  It is not serious.  It is
  debatable whether or not this is a security issue.
CVE-2022-38627
Not a bug in SQLite
This is not a bug in SQLite.  This is an 
  SQL injection bug in a specific
  PHP application.  In other words, the bug is in the PHP application code, not
  in SQLite.  Even though this CVE is not about SQLite, "SQLite" is
  mentioned in the publicity about the bug and so we list it here.
CVE-2022-35737
3.39.2(2022-07-21)
This bug is an array-bounds overflow.  The bug is only accessible when using some
  of the C-language APIs provided by SQLite.  The bug cannot be reached using SQL
  nor can it be reached by providing SQLite with a corrupt database file.
  The bug only comes up when very long string inputs (greater than 2 billion bytes
  in length) are provided as arguments to a few specific C-language interfaces,
  and even then only under special circumstances.
CVE-2022-24854
Not a bug in SQLite
This CVE describes a bug in an application that uses SQLite, not in SQLite itself.
  SQLite is doing everything correctly.  The application grants users the ability to
  run SQL statements, using SQLite, that can leak or change information that those users
  should not normally have access to.  This is purely an application bug.  It does not
  describe a malfunction or vulnerability in SQLite.
CVE-2022-21227
Not a bug in SQLite
This CVE describes a bug in a third-party packages that provides a binding
  for SQLite to Node.js.  The bug reported is in the third-party Node.js binding,
  not in SQLite itself.  Do not be confused by the use of the word "SQLite" in the
  ambiguously-worded CVE description.
CVE-2021-45346
Not a bug in SQLite
This CVE is misinformation.  See the discussion around
  SQLite forum post 53de8864ba114bf.
CVE-2021-42169
Not a bug in SQLite
This CVE has nothing whatsoever to do with SQLite.  It is about a bug in
  application that happens to use SQLite.  Since SQLite is mentioned in the 
  CVE description, the CVE is included here to emphasize that
  this is not an SQLite bug.
CVE-2021-36690
Not a bug in the core SQLite library
This bug is not in the SQLite core library, but rather in an
  experimental extension that is used to implement the
  .expert command in the CLI.  The code that contains the bug
  does not appear in standard SQLite builds, though it
  is included in the sqlite3.exe command-line tool.
  Applications must link against the extra source code files that
  implement the extension and take other deliberate actions to
  activate the extension before the troublesome code can be run.
  For the rare application that uses the troublesome extension,
  the consequence of this bug is that malicious SQL can cause a
  NULL pointer deference and denial of service.
(details)
CVE-2021-31239
Not a bug in the core SQLite library
This is a bug in the CLI.  It allows a user with unrestricted shell access to cause
  a denial-of-service.  Of course, there are a million easier ways for a user with
  unrestricted shell access to cause far worse mischief.  The problem was in the
  appendvfs extension which
  is not a part of standard SQLite.
(details)
CVE-2021-28305
Not a bug in SQLite
This is not a bug in SQLite.  The bug is in a third-party application that
  uses SQLite.  SQLite is mentioned by name in the CVE description,
  however, so we have included the CVE in the list.
CVE-2021-23404
Not a bug in SQLite
This is not a bug in SQLite.  The bug is in a third-party application that
  uses SQLite and includes "sqlite" in its name.  This CVE is included on the
  list because it mentions SQLite even though the bug has nothing to do
  with SQLite.
CVE-2021-20227
3.34.1(2021-01-20)
Malicious SQL statement causes read-after-free.  No harm can come of this
  particular read-after-free instance, as far as anyone knows.  The bug is
  undetectable without a memory sanitizer. The CVE
  claims that this bug is an RCE - a Remote Code Execution
  vulnerability, but that claim is incorrect.
  The RCE claim is misinformation.
(details)
CVE-2021-20223
3.34.0(2020-12-01)
The problem identified by this CVE is not a vulnerability. 
  It is a malfunction. A coding error causes FTS5
  to sometimes return inconsistent and incorrect results under obscure circumstances,
  but no memory errors occur.
(details)
CVE-2021-0646
3.32.1(2020-05-25)
Duplicate of CVE-2020-13434.
CVE-2020-15358
3.32.3(2020-06-18)
Malicious SQL statement causes a read past the end of a heap buffer.
(details)
CVE-2020-13871
3.32.3(2020-06-18)
Malicious SQL statement causes a read-only use-after-free memory error.
(details)
CVE-2020-13632
3.32.0(2020-05-22)
Malicious SQL statement causes a read of a NULL pointer in the
  matchinfo() SQL function of the FTS3 extension, resulting in
  denial of service.
(details)
CVE-2020-13631
3.32.0(2020-05-22)
Malicious SQL statement (an ALTER TABLE that tries to rename a
  virtual table into one of its own shadow tables)
  causes an infinite loop and denial of service.
(details)
CVE-2020-13630
3.32.0(2020-05-22)
Malicious SQL statement causes a read-only use-after-free,
  possibly resulting in an incorrect output from the snippet()
  SQL function of the FTS3 extension.  There is no known
  way to exfiltrate data or crash the application using this bug.
(details)
CVE-2020-13435
3.32.1(2020-05-25)
Malicious SQL statement causes a read access to a NULL pointer and
  denial of service.
(details)
CVE-2020-13434
3.32.1(2020-05-25)
Malicious SQL statement involving the printf() SQL function results
  in an integer overflow which can overwrite the stack with over 2
  billion bytes of 0x30 or 0x20 (ASCII '0' or ' ').
  Even though this is a stack overwrite, there is no known way to
  redirect control or otherwise escalate the level of harm.
  This is a denial-of-service attack only.
(details)
CVE-2020-11656
3.32.0(2020-05-22)
Malicious SQL statement causes read-only use-after-free of memory allocation
  if SQLite is compile with -DSQLITE_DEBUG.  Does not affect release
  builds.
(details)
CVE-2020-11655
3.32.0(2020-05-22)
Malicious SQL statement causes a read using an uninitialized pointer
  and denial-of-service.
(details)
CVE-2020-9327
3.32.0(2020-05-22)
Malicious SQL statement causes a read using an uninitialized pointer
  and denial-of-service
(details)
CVE-2020-6405
3.31.0(2020-01-22)
Malicious SQL statement causes a NULL pointer dereference and
  denial-of-service
(details)
CVE-2019-20218
3.31.0(2020-01-22)
Malicious SQL statement causes an uninitialized pointer read and
  denial-of-service.
(details)
CVE-2019-19959
3.31.0(2020-01-22)
Malicious SQL statement causes a NULL pointer dereference
  in the Zipfile virtual table extension and
  denial-of-service.  This is only possible when the optional
  Zipfile virtual table extension is deployed, which is not
